hello everybody this is e meek 77 and
we're going to continue on with our
basic modeling courses in cheetah 3d so
let me fire up cheetah and we're gonna
start with our basic blank screen okay
so the first thing that I want to do is
I want to create a spline so I'm gonna
go up to tools spline create spline and
this will allow me to create a new
spline now I'm gonna go to my front view
and we're going to make a glass
something simple something easy and now
that we're in our create spline mode I'm
gonna go ahead in here and start
clicking as you can see it starts with
the yellow and the red is the end the
yellow part of the line is the beginning
of the curve and the red part of the
line is the end of the curve
double-click the clip now I'm going to
zoom in on this when I come over here
and double-click my spline to make it
editable and now of course we can go in
here and select our points and adjust
them of course I could sit here and I
can fiddle with this all day long but
considering this is gonna supposed to be
a fast easy tutorial I'm not gonna sit
and tweak with it too much good enough
so now what I'm gonna do is yes I want
to enter my tweet mode too because it
makes things a lot easier to adjust this
is a little thick for my taste down here
might need to close it up a little
like so
bring this one up and we'll just do them
all this way and just take them all up a
tad here take this one and this one and
we'll move them up okay so now we have
this basic shape what are we gonna do
well I'm gonna go up to selection and
pick area select and I'm gonna draw a
box around this point and this point
down here like this and that's gonna
select my two outer points because I
need to set the value for this points
because I'm going to lay that around
okay we've got that go up the tools set
value I'm gonna uncheck my set X in my
set Y hit okay that will apply it now we
can go back to our camera view and we
can see our little shape there so I'm
gonna go up to my creator modifiers and
select lathe now nothing will happen so
I'll drag the lathe or the spline and
drag it and drop it on the lathe and
boom so now as you can see I have this
basic glass it's that simple to make a
glass in jito we could add a material
we'll say a membrane and we'll go up
here and we'll make it white like that
and we'll make that take the power up
and we'll have the transparency all the
way up and we'll take the threshold to
about 0.25
now this is about as good as it closes
glass material you're gonna get with
from within cheetah unless you go out
and source your own you know material
which is no problem but I'm just using
what cheetah gives us see here let me
add us skylight to the scene rerender it
and then we have our little shadow here
as you can see now let's drag our
membrane on top as you can see there and
render again now it's a little if you
look on the edges there let's zoom in
like so let's select our material
let's render now that we're a little
closer
now as you can see we got a little bit
of a glass effect coming in here which
we need to tweak a little bit more which
is not a problem I just wanted to give
you the basic idea of what's going on
here but I to be honest with you I don't
do any much of that inside of Cheeta
I usually go to Houdini for that stuff
and let's render again I'm just tweaking
fiddling around here now as you can see
we have a really really glassy or almost
ghost look to our render now that I've
adjusted the threshold down to nothing
this is this is the basic this is the
clothes you're gonna get the glass and
cheated without Bert source on your own
material but what I've done was I just
exported this little glass as an obj
sent it to Houdini and now as you can
see here let me zoom in that was a quick
render here you zoom in here
now if I grab a quick render of this you
can see the glass texturing and stuff in
Houdini is just wow you know I mean look
at that that looks like real glass I
mean Houdini I just I can't get over it
if you can model in Houdini the
procedural modeling is just so powerful
you know so we're gonna get into
procedural modeling in Houdini I'm just
trying to cover the modeling in cheetah
first because it's the basic and most
well-known way to model it models like
maiya and other applications
Houdini is unique and you can pull off
some really unique stefanini and we'll
get to that but let's cover the basics
of the mass majority first okay so don't
worry about modeling Houdini will get
there that is an art all on its own and
it takes a little bit of different
thinking process because it is
procedural and once you get your head
wrapped around it the tools of Houdini
can be a little different but man it's
so powerful really the only reason I
came into Houdini was to show you this
great model I made in cheetah textured
in Houdini and look we've wound up with
a wonderful looking wineglass thanks for
watching guys we'll see you next time